Step 1:- Check the opatch version and inventory for ORACLE_HOME on both nodes
Step 2:-Check the opatch version and inventory for GRID HOME on both nodes
Step 3:- Update the opatch utility

Take the backup of OPatch directory from GRID and ORACLE_HOME on both nodes
Step 4:- Validation of Oracle Inventory 
Step 5:- Download and Unzip the April 18 PSU Patch
Step 6:- Check Patch Conflict Detection and Resolution :-

For GRID HOME,
Step 7:- Apply the patch using Opatchauto

 main advantage of opatchauto utility was automatically down the CRS and database services and restart the services after apply patching.

opatchauto :-

OPatchauto automatically patch the typical Grid Infrastructure (GI) and RAC home directories with minimal intervention.
Check the DBA_REGISTRY_SQLPATCH : 


Oracle12c-Step-by-Step Applying PSU Patch in Oracle 12c For Single-Instance            

 	
 Level steps for applying the Patch 

    Step 1:- Current version of Opatch Tool in our environment 
    Step 2:- Backup the existing Opatch folder
    Step 3:- Unzip 6880880 patch
    Step 4:- Check the opatch lsinventory
    Step 5:- Take Backup of ORACLE_HOME (Rollback plan)
    Step 6:- Shutdown Standby Database and Listener
    Step 7 :- Apply PSU patch on ORACLE_HOME
    Step 8:- Startup the Database and Listener
   Step 9:- Execute post patch steps and run datapatch command
   Step 10 :- After applying PSU patch,Check the DBA_REGISTRY_SQLPATCH
   Step 11:- Check opatch lsinventory  and list of patches applied in ORACLE_HOME .


Critical Patch Update (CPU) --> Release of security fixes each quarter instead the cumulative database security patch for the quarter.

Patch Set Updates (PSU) --> Cumulative patches that include both the security fixes and priority fixes.  They are "version upgrades" modifying the las number of version (11.2.0.1.1, 11.2.0.1.2,...).

Security Patch Update (SPU) --> It is the new terminology of CPU (From October 2012) . SPU's can't be applied if any PSU's have been applied, unless your database is upgraded with a new base version.
	 

How To Applying PSU Patch on Oracle Dataguard Environment

High Level steps for applying the Patch 

    Primary site disable the log shipping to the standby database and Stop MRP on standby site
    Shutdown Standby Database and Listener
    Apply PSU patch on Standby site
    Shutdown Primary database and Listener.
    Apply PSU Patch on Primary Site
    Enable Log shipping on Primary
    execute Post installation Scripts (datapatch)
    Monitor the redo apply from Primary to Standby

LEVEL0 and LEVEL1 Backup:

A level 0 incremental backup is physically identical to a full backup 
 The only difference is that the level 0 backup is recorded as an incremental backup in the RMAN repository, 
so it can be used as the parent for a level 1 backup.

MAX PERFORMANCE:

('SYNC'):  As the name implies,  primary server will NOT be committed until the logs have been successfully transported to the standby servers.  
The synchronous log transport mode is required for the Maximum Protection and Maximum Availability data protection modes.
LogXptMode = ('ASYNC'): primary server before the log file arrives on the standby servers.  
The asynchronous log transport mode is required for the Maximum Performance data protection mode.

Hide MAX PERFORMANCE
Add dataguard are failover and switch over included
Rac we have multiple nodes and asm 
